<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="starting_cold_engine_task">
    <title>Starting the Engine in Cold Weather</title>
    <shortdesc>Learn how to properly start and warm up your engine in cold weather conditions to
        ensure optimal performance and prevent stalling.</shortdesc>

    <taskbody>
        <context>
            <p>In cold weather, gasoline does not vaporize easily, making engine starts more
                challenging. Follow these procedures to start your engine effectively in cold
                conditions.</p>
        </context>

        <steps>
            <stepsection>Primary Method</stepsection>
            <step>
                <cmd>Adjust the carburetor settings</cmd>
                <info>Turn the carburetor dash adjustment one-quarter turn to the left to enable a
                    richer gasoline mixture.</info>
            </step>

            <step>
                <cmd>Prime the engine</cmd>
                <substeps>
                    <substep>
                        <cmd>Hold out the priming rod</cmd>
                    </substep>
                    <substep>
                        <cmd>Either turn the crank six to eight quarter-turns in quick succession or
                            turn the motor over several times using the starter</cmd>
                    </substep>
                </substeps>
            </step>

            <stepsection>Alternative Method for Troublesome Starts</stepsection>
            <step>
                <cmd>Close the throttle lever</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Prime the engine while cranking</cmd>
                <info>Hold out priming rod while turning the crank several times or using the
                    starter</info>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Release the priming rod</cmd>
                <info>Ensure it returns completely</info>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Set the spark and throttle</cmd>
                <substeps>
                    <substep>
                        <cmd>Place spark lever in third notch</cmd>
                    </substep>
                    <substep>
                        <cmd>Advance throttle lever several notches</cmd>
                    </substep>
                </substeps>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Switch to "Magneto" position</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Start the engine by either giving the crank one or two turns or closing the
                    starting switch</cmd>
            </step>

            <step>
                <cmd>Warm up the engine</cmd>
                <info>
                    <ul>
                        <li>Advance the spark eight to ten notches on the quadrant</li>
                        <li>Allow motor to run until thoroughly heated</li>
                        <li>Turn carburetor adjustment back one-quarter turn once warmed up</li>
                    </ul>
                </info>
            </step>
        </steps>

        <result>The engine should start and run smoothly in cold weather conditions. <note
                type="warning">Do not start driving with a cold motor, as you will have reduced
                power and may stall.</note></result>

        <postreq>For overnight storage, you may stop the engine by pulling out the priming rod,
            which fills cylinders with rich gasoline vapor. Only use this method if the car will
            stand long enough to cool off completely. Do not use this method if you plan to restart
            the engine while it's still hot, as it may cause starting difficulties.</postreq>
    </taskbody>
</task>
